Karagiannis & Reimer (Eds.): Practical Aspects of Knowledge Management.
c
LNAI 2569, pp. 168-178, ISBN 3-540-00314-2, Springer
2002.

Analysis of Clustering Algorithms for Web-based Search
Sven Meyer zu Eissen and Benno Stein
smze@upb.de, stein@upb.de
Paderborn University
Department of Computer Science
D-33095 Paderborn, Germany

Abstract Automatic document categorization plays a key role in the development of future interfaces for Web-based search. Clustering algorithms are considered as a technology that is capable of mastering this “ad-hoc” categorization
task.
This paper presents results of a comprehensive analysis of clustering algorithms in connection with document categorization. The contributions relate to
exemplar-based, hierarchical, and density-based clustering algorithms. In particular, we contrast ideal and real clustering settings and present runtime results that
are based on efficient implementations of the investigated algorithms.
Key words: Document Categorization, Clustering, Clustering Quality
Measures, Information Retrieval

1 Web-based Search and Clustering
The Internet provides a huge collection of documents, and its use as a source of information is obvious and became very popular. As pointed out and analyzed by Dennis
et al. there is a plethora of Web search technology, which can broadly be classified into
four categories [4]:
(1) Unassisted Keyword Search. One or more search terms are entered and the search
engine returns a ranked list of document summaries. Representatives: Google
(www.google.com) or AltaVista (www.altavista.com).
(2) Assisted Keyword Search. The search engine produces suggestions based on the
user’s initial query. Representative: Vivisimo (www.vivisimo.com).
(3) Directory-based Search. Here, the information space is divided into a hierarchy of
categories, where the user navigates from broad to specific classes. Representative:
Yahoo! (www.yahoo.com).
(4) Query-by-Example. The user selects an interesting document snippet, which is then
used as the basis of a new query.
In our working group we concentrate on developing smart interfaces for Webbased search. We think that the ideal search interface should model the search process
within three phases: (a) An initialization phase according to the plain unassisted keyword search paradigm, (b) a categorization phase similar to the directory-based search

