MACAON
An NLP Tool Suite for Processing Word Lattices
Alexis Nasr Frédéric Béchet Jean-François Rey Benoı̂t Favre Joseph Le Roux∗
Laboratoire d’Informatique Fondamentale de Marseille- CNRS - UMR 6166
Université Aix-Marseille
(alexis.nasr,frederic.bechet,jean-francois.rey,benoit.favre,joseph.le.roux)
@lif.univ-mrs.fr

Abstract
MACAON is a tool suite for standard NLP tasks
developed for French. MACAON has been designed to process both human-produced text
and highly ambiguous word-lattices produced
by NLP tools. MACAON is made of several native modules for common tasks such as a tokenization, a part-of-speech tagging or syntactic parsing, all communicating with each other
through XML files . In addition, exchange protocols with external tools are easily definable.
MACAON is a fast, modular and open tool, distributed under GNU Public License.

1

is a suite of tools developped to process ambiguous input and extend inference of input modules within a global scope.
It consists in several modules that perform classical
NLP tasks (tokenization, word recognition, part-ofspeech tagging, lemmatization, morphological analysis, partial or full parsing) on either native text
or word lattices. MACAON is distributed under
GNU public licence and can be downloaded from
http://www.macaon.lif.univ-mrs.fr/.
From a general point of view, a MACAON module
can be seen as an annotation device1 which adds a
new level of annotation to its input that generally depends on annotations from preceding modules. The
modules communicate through XML files that allow
the representation different layers of annotation as
well as ambiguities at each layer. Moreover, the initial XML structuring of the processed files (logical
structuring of a document, information from the Automatic Speech Recognition module . . . ) remains
untouched by the processing stages.
As already mentioned, one of the main characteristics of MACAON is the ability for each module
to accept ambiguous inputs and produce ambiguous
outputs, in such a way that ambiguities can be resolved at a later stage of processing. The compact
representation of ambiguous structures is at the heart
of the MACAON exchange format, described in section 2. Furthermore every module can weight the
solutions it produces. such weights can be used to
rank solutions or limit their number for later stages
MACAON

Introduction

The automatic processing of textual data generated
by NLP software, resulting from Machine Translation, Automatic Speech Recognition or Automatic
Text Summarization, raises new challenges for language processing tools. Unlike native texts (texts
produced by humans), this new kind of texts is the
result of imperfect processors and they are made
of several hypotheses, usually weighted with confidence measures. Automatic text production systems can produce these weighted hypotheses as nbest lists, word lattices, or confusion networks. It is
crucial for this space of ambiguous solutions to be
kept for later processing since the ambiguities of the
lower levels can sometimes be resolved during highlevel processing stages. It is therefore important to
be able to represent this ambiguity.
∗

This work has been funded by the French Agence Nationale
pour la Recherche, through the projects SEQUOIA (ANR-08EMER-013) and DECODA (2009-CORD-005-01)

1

Annotation must be taken here in a general sense which includes tagging, segmentation or the construction of more complex objets as syntagmatic or dependencies trees.

86
Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 System Demonstrations, pages 86–91,
Portland, Oregon, USA, 21 June 2011. c 2011 Association for Computational Linguistics

