Nasr
---------
MACAON An NLP Tool Suite for Processing Word Lattices 
---------

MACAON is a tool suite for standard NLP tasks
developed for French. MACAON has been designed to process both human-produced text
and highly ambiguous word-lattices produced
by NLP tools. MACAON is made of several native modules for common tasks such as a tokenization, a part-of-speech tagging or syntactic parsing, all communicating with each other
through XML files . In addition, exchange protocols with external tools are easily definable.
MACAON is a fast, modular and open tool, distributed under GNU Public License.1is a suite of tools developped to process ambiguous input and extend inference of input modules within a global scope.
It consists in several modules that perform classical
NLP tasks (tokenization, word recognition, part-ofspeech tagging, lemmatization, morphological analysis, partial or full parsing) on either native text
or word lattices. MACAON is distributed under
GNU public licence and can be downloaded from
http://www.macaon.lif.univ-mrs.fr/.
From a general point of view, a MACAON module
can be seen as an annotation device1 which adds a
new level of annotation to its input that generally depends on annotations from preceding modules. The
modules communicate through XML files that allow
the representation different layers of annotation as
well as ambiguities at each layer. Moreover, the initial XML structuring of the processed files (logical
structuring of a document, information from the Automatic Speech Recognition module . . . ) remains
untouched by the processing stages.
As already mentioned, one of the main characteristics of MACAON is the ability for each module
to accept ambiguous inputs and produce ambiguous
outputs, in such a way that ambiguities can be resolved at a later stage of processing. The compact
representation of ambiguous structures is at the heart
of the MACAON exchange format, described in section 2. Furthermore every module can weight the
solutions it produces. such weights can be used to
rank solutions or limit their number for later stages
MACAON 
---------

Anne Abeillé, Lionel Clément, and François Toussenel.
2003. Building a treebank for french. In Anne
Abeillé, editor, Treebanks. Kluwer, Dordrecht.
Steven Abney. 1996. Partial parsing via finite-state cascades. In Workshop on Robust Parsing, 8th European
Summer School in Logic, Language and Information,
Prague, Czech Republic, pages 8–15.
M. Attia, J. Foster, D. Hogan, J. Le Roux, L. Tounsi, and
J. van Genabith. 2010. Handling Unknown Words in
Statistical Latent-Variable Parsing Models for Arabic,
English and French. In Proceedings of SPMRL.
Lucie Barque, Alexis Nasr, and Alain Polguère. 2010.
From the definitions of the trésor de la langue française
to a semantic database of the french language. In EURALEX 2010, Leeuwarden, Pays Bas.References
Anne Abeillé, Lionel Clément, and François Toussenel.
2003. Building a treebank for french. In Anne
Abeillé, editor, Treebanks. Kluwer, Dordrecht.
Steven Abney. 1996. Partial parsing via finite-state cascades. In Workshop on Robust Parsing, 8th European
Summer School in Logic, Language and Information,
Prague, Czech Republic, pages 8–15.
M. Attia, J. Foster, D. Hogan, J. Le Roux, L. Tounsi, and
J. van Genabith. 2010. Handling Unknown Words in
Statistical Latent-Variable Parsing Models for Arabic,
English and French. In Proceedings of SPMRL.
Lucie Barque, Alexis Nasr, and Alain Polguère. 2010.
From the definitions of the trésor de la langue française
to a semantic database of the french language. In EURALEX 2010, Leeuwarden, Pays Bas.91Frédéric Béchet and Alexis Nasr. 2009. Robust dependency parsing for spoken language understanding of
spontaneous speech. In Interspeech, Brighton, United
Kingdom.
Olivier Blanc, Matthieu Constant, and Eric Laporte.
2006. Outilex, plate-forme logicielle de traitement de
textes écrits. In TALN 2006, Leuven.
Nancy Ide and Laurent Romary. 2004. International
standard for a linguistic annotation framework. Natural language engineering, 10(3-4):211–225.
M. Mohri, F. Pereira, and M. Riley. 2000. The design
principles of a weighted finite-state transducer library.
Theoretical Computer Science, 231(1):17–32.
P. Nocera, G. Linares, D. Massonié, and L. Lefort. 2006.
Phoneme lattice based A* search algorithm for speech
recognition. In Text, Speech and Dialogue, pages 83–
111. Springer.
Slav Petrov, Leon Barrett, Romain Thibaux, and Dan
Klein. 2006. Learning Accurate, Compact, and Interpretable Tree Annotation. In ACL.
Benoı̂t Sagot and Pierre Boullier. 2008. Sxpipe 2:
architecture pour le traitement présyntaxique de corpus bruts. Traitement Automatique des Langues,
49(2):155–188.
Benoı̂t Sagot, Lionel Clément, Eric Villemonte de la
Clergerie, and Pierre Boullier. 2006. The lefff 2 Syntactic Lexicon for French: Architecture, Acquisition,
Use. In International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation, Genoa.
Andreas Stolcke. 2002. Srilm - an extensible language
modeling toolkit. In International Conference on Spoken Language Processing, Denver, Colorado.
S.J. Young. 1994. The HTK Hidden Markov Model
Toolkit: Design and Philosophy. Entropic Cambridge
Research Laboratory, Ltd, 2:2–44.